{{Tip|content=Да, вот эти ребята...

Добавляйте свои ссылки на материалы по инновациям/проблемам в Linux, (не)безосновательно затронутыми(созданными) Поттерингом и другими

Среди них:

* проблема отдельного /usr, сломанного давно (еще до Леннарта)
* перенос /bin /sbin в /usr; /run и другие инновации в FHS
* systemd как альтернатива sysvinit и другим системам загрузки
* systemd как BLOB, слияние с udev и прочие конгломерАДы (systemd/GNULinux)
* бинарные логи совместно с классическими при использовании journald/systemd (или даже вместо)
* жизнь без initrd в новом веке
* планшетный ад (gnome 3)
}}

====Основное====
*[http://0pointer.de/blog Блог Поттеринга]
*[http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Alwn.net+mezcalero Lennart's posts on LWN]
*[http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd.html systemd announcment]
**[http://www.opennet.ru/opennews/art.shtml?num=30412 Сравнение систем инициализации systemd, upstart и SysVinit]
**[https://docs.google.com/document/pub?id=1IC9yOXj7j6cdLLxWEBAGRL6wl97tFxgjLUEHIX3MSTs Introducing the Journal]
**[http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd-update.html systemd status update #1]
**[http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd-update-2.html systemd status update #2]
**[http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd-update-3.html systemd status update #3]
====Freedesktop====
*[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio PulseAudio]
*[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/TheCaseForTheUsrMerge The Case For The /usr Merge]
*[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/separate-usr-is-broken Separate /usr is broken]
*[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd systemd homepage]
*[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/multiseat Multi-Seat on Linux (systemd)]
*[http://wayland.freedesktop.org/ Wayland (non-Lennart with comparable butthurt)]
====LWN====
*[http://lwn.net/Articles/436012/ Introducing /run]
*[http://lwn.net/Articles/490413/ Udev and systemd to merge (source tree only)]
*[http://lwn.net/Articles/430598/ Choosing between portability and innovation] [http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/7584989 (ист)]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/441328/ Systemd and ConsoleKit]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/458789/ LPC: Booting and systemd]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/477467/ The case for the /usr merge]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/450299/ Interview with Lennart Poettering (LinuxFR.org)]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/429695/ Quotes of the week]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/473999/ The logger meets linux-kernel]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/487342/ Fedora rejects Journal-only logging, ponders ARM]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/484168/ Upstart: please update to latest upstream version]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/494095/ Systemd & the tightly couple core band vs a world of many inits (discussion)]
====Fedora====
*[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/SysVinit_to_Systemd_Cheatsheet Fedora: SysVinit to Systemd Cheatsheet]
*[https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/UsrMove /usr move in Fedora (accepted)]
*[https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/systemd-journal Fedora: Systemd Journal as only default syslog]
**[https://fedorahosted.org/fesco/ticket/828 Fedora 18: systemd-journal ONLY is rejected], [http://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/fedora-meeting/2012-03-19/fesco.2012-03-19-18.00.log.html подробности]
*[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.redhat.fedora.devel/155511/focus=155547 Fedora: discussion about UsrMove feature]
*[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/ckremoval ConsoleKit Removal in Fedora]

====Debian (є канонічним)====
*[http://wiki.debian.org/ReleaseGoals/RunDirectory Debian: /run in Wheezy]
*[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.debian.devel.general/165785 Debian: 'Move all to /usr' discussion]
*[http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2009/05/msg00075.html Debian: Deprecating /usr as a standalone filesystem?]
*[http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2009/05/msg00935.html Debian: no deprecation of /usr as a standalone filesystem]
*[http://wiki.debian.org/ReadonlyRoot Debian: Read only partitions]
*[http://wiki.debian.org/systemd Debian: Installing systemd in Debian]
*[http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2011/07/msg00269.html Debian mail list: A few observations about systemd]
*[https://lwn.net/Articles/452865/ Debian debates systemd]
====OpenSUSE====
*[http://lists.opensuse.org/opensuse-factory/2011-11/msg01431.html Opensuse-factory: Proposal for 12.2, move all binaries under /usr]
*[http://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:Usr_merge /usr merge in openSUSE]
*[http://fossbook.info/subproj/opensuse/1370 openSUSE. Зарисовки для новелл: возвращение sysvinit]
*[http://rpmfind.net/linux/RPM/opensuse/factory/x86_64/vim-base-7.3.456-1.1.x86_64.html openSUSE: Vim-base-systemd Epic Win] (см. ниже) [https://www.linux.org.ru/news/linux-general/7602530?cid=7604028 (ист)]
<code>
 * Wed Feb 29 2012 mvyskocil@suse.cz
  - remove pointless systemd dependency and run the tmpfiles binary
    only in case it exists
 ...
 * Wed Dec 07 2011 aj@suse.de
  - Move require of systemd to base package since the base postinstall
    needs it.
</code>
====Gentoo====
*[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/74464 Gentoo: Locations of binaries and separate /usr]
*[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/72128 Gentoo: Warn users not to do separate /usr partition without proper initramfs in the handbook?]
*[https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=403493 Gentoo: sys-fs/udev-171-r5 - problem running /usr/sbin/alsactl when /usr is not mounted]
*[http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev/msg_690a54fc89fa435270f66c8585f118d1.xml Gentoo: udev 181 unmasking news]
*[http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev/msg_978b2222cb87ec028fee65dc29eedbdb.xml Gentoo: busybox(sep-usr) support for mounting /usr w/out hassle (sep /usr without initrd)]
*[https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Mdev Gentoo: mdev wiki]
====Arch====
*[http://archlinux.org.ru/forum/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=8239 Arch: Перенос /sbin в /usr/bin после обновления udev до 181]
*[http://archlinux.org.ru/forum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=8133 Arch: /usr на отдельном разделе.UPD проблема вернулась!]
*[https://mailman.archlinux.org/pipermail/arch-dev-public/2012-August/023389.html Arch moves to systemd]
*[https://www.linux.org.ru/news/gnome/8036367 Arch Linux прощается с /lib]
*[http://allanmcrae.com/2012/08/are-we-removing-what-defines-arch-linux/ Are We Removing What Defines Arch Linux?]
====Разное (w/ критика)====
*[http://lists.busybox.net/pipermail/busybox/2010-December/074114.html Understanding the bin, sbin, usr/bin, usr/sbin split] и [http://www.muromec.org.ua/2012/02/blog-post.html Про каталоги в юниксе]
*[http://i.imgur.com/usftZ.png Lennart's advertisement]
*[https://mail.gnome.org/archives/desktop-devel-list/2011-May/msg00427.html systemd as external dependency (GNOME 3.2)]
*[http://davidz25.blogspot.com/2012/03/simpler-faster-better.html Rewriting udisks]
**[http://igurublog.wordpress.com/2012/03/11/udisks2-another-loss-for-linux/ Udisks2: Another Loss For Linux]
*journald discussion
**[http://blog.gerhards.net/2011/11/journald-and-rsyslog.html Rainer Gerhards: journald and rsyslog]
**[http://blog.gerhards.net/2011/11/what-i-dont-like-about-journald.html Rainer Gerhards: What I don't like about journald]
**[http://blog.gerhards.net/2011/11/serious-syslog-problems.html Rainer Gerhards: Serious syslog problems?]
**[http://www.itwire.com/opinion-and-analysis/open-sauce/52112-journald-just-a-reinvention-of-the-wheel Journald: just a reinvention of the wheel?]
*[http://rusty.ozlabs.org/?p=236 Lennart upon your internets]
*[http://monolight.cc/2011/05/the-systemd-fallacy/ The systemd fallacy]
*[http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/systemd-devel/2012-April/004974.html RFC: User sessions in systemd] и [http://russianfedora.ru/content/%D0%A7%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%82%D1%8C-%D1%84%D1%83%D0%BD%D0%BA%D1%86%D0%B8%D0%BE%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8-gnome-kde-%D0%B8-xfce-%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%8F%D1%82-%D0%B2-systemd Часть функциональности Gnome, KDE и Xfce переносят в systemd]
*[https://plus.google.com/115547683951727699051/posts/X3fUhyJREKq Lennart reply to Canonical]
*[https://plus.google.com/111049168280159033135/posts/V2t57Efkf1s Greg Kroah-Hartman on future of Linux and its ecosystem]
*[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTEwMzQ Lennart on procps-ng]
*[http://rfremix.ru/content/%D0%98%D0%B4%D0%B5%D1%82-%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B1%D0%BE%D1%82%D0%B0-%D0%BF%D0%BE-%D1%83%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%B8%D1%8E-%D0%B2%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D1%8B%D1%85-%D1%82%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%BC%D0%B8%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%B2-%D0%B8%D0%B7-%D1%8F%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B0-configvtn Идет работа по удалению виртуальных терминалов из ядра ( CONFIG_VT=n )] и [https://github.com/dvdhrm/kmscon/wiki/FAQ kmscon FAQ]
*[https://igurublog.wordpress.com/2012/11/05/gnome-et-al-rotting-in-threes/ GNOME (et al): Rotting In Threes]
* Цитаты:
<code>
"As a trivial example: systemd creates user session information in /run/user/$user. I brought up with lennart the fact that this would only permit one session per user. He rejected out of hand the fact that more than one session would ever be needed, because Gnome only allowed one session per user".
</code>

еще

<code>
Polkit is an example of this: we have a patch to make systemd optional
at runtime, we request users to test it, and instead of testing it we
end up with a 300+ posts thread about how bad Lennart is, with nearly
no-one trying to investigate what is wrong about the patch and in which
situations it doesn't work.
</code>
====Linux.org.ru====
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/6949377 Разработчики дистрибутива Fedora Linux рассматривают возможность перемещения всех имеющихся в системе исполняемых файлов в одну директорию]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/news/redhat/6950484 Разработчики Fedora обсуждают объединение каталогов для исполняемых файлов]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/news/redhat/7094857 Для Fedora 17 утверждён план по переносу компонентов из корня в /usr и переход на Btrfs]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/7541891 Gentoo: прилетела новостишка]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/news/opensource/7029354 The Journal: жизнь после syslog]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/7268879 Поддержка /usr на отдельном разделе]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/7371996 Охота за зависимостями от /usr]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/news/opensource/7255258 Релиз systemd v38 c поддержкой Journal, замены системе syslog]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/desktop/7557733 Gentoo: initrd для монтирования /usr]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/news/linux-general/7602530 Слияние кодовой базы udev и systemd]
*[http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/7670147 Новости systemd]
*[https://www.linux.org.ru/news/gnome/8036367 Один из разработчиков GNOME осветил проблемы развития проекта]
*[https://www.linux.org.ru/news/debian/8084439 Xfce 4 будет окружением рабочего стола по умолчанию в Debian 7 «Wheezy»]
====Немного о важных пакетах====
* '''sysvinit''' - System V style init programs original written by Miquel van Smoorenburg that control the booting and shutdown of your system. init (short for initialization) is a program for Unix-based computer operating systems that spawns all other processes. It runs as a daemon and typically has PID 1. The boot loader starts the kernel and the kernel starts init.

** '''systemd''' is a system and service manager for Linux, compatible with SysV and LSB init scripts. systemd provides aggressive parallelization capabilities, uses socket and D-Bus activation for starting services, offers on-demand starting of daemons, keeps track of processes using Linux cgroups, supports snapshotting and restoring of the system state, maintains mount and automount points and implements an elaborate transactional dependency-based service control logic. It can work as a drop-in replacement for sysvinit.

** '''upstart''' is an event-based replacement for the /sbin/init daemon which handles starting of tasks and services during boot, stopping them during shutdown and supervising them while the system is running. It was originally developed for the Ubuntu distribution, but is intended to be suitable for deployment in all Linux distributions as a replacement for the venerable System-V init.

* '''initramfs-tools''' - This package contains tools to create and boot an initramfs for prepackaged 2.6 Linux kernel. The initramfs is an cpio archive. At boot time, the kernel unpacks that archive into ram, mounts and uses it as initial root file system. From there on the mounting of the real root file system occurs in user space. klibc handles the boot-time networking setup. Supports nfs root system. Any boot loader with initrd support is able to load an initramfs archive. Having the root on MD, LVM2, LUKS or NFS is also supported.

** '''dracut''' - unlike existing initramfs's, this is an attempt at having as little as possible hard-coded into the initramfs as possible. The initramfs has (basically) one purpose in life -- getting the rootfs mounted so that we can transition to the real rootfs. This is all driven off of device availability. Therefore, instead of scripts hard-coded to do various things, we depend on udev to create device nodes for us and then when we have the rootfs's device node, we mount and carry on. Having the root on MD, LVM2, LUKS is supported as well as NFS, iSCSI, NBD and FCOE with dracut-network. 

* '''udev''' is the device manager for the Linux kernel. Primarily, it manages device nodes in /dev. It is the successor of devfs and hotplug, which means that it handles the /dev directory and all user space actions when adding/removing devices, including firmware load.

** '''''hotplug''' is a system for managing devices that can be dynamically attached to and removed from the system while it's running. The most obvious use for this system is handling USB and firewire devices, though it also handles PCI (32-bit PCMCIA - or CardBus - devices are really PCI in disguise), tape drives, SCSI devices, devices requiring firmware to be loaded into them, input devices, and more. Obsolete.''

** '''''HAL''' was a software project providing a hardware abstraction layer for Unix-like computer systems. It aimed to allow desktop applications to discover and use the hardware of the host system through a simple, portable and abstract API, regardless of the type of the underlying hardware. HAL is now deprecated on GNU/Linux systems, with functionality being merged into udev as of 2008–2010. HAL is in maintenance mode - no new features are added. All future development focuses on udisks, upower and other parts of the stack. HAL -> udev/udisks/other''

* '''Rsyslog''' is an enhanced multi-threaded syslogd with a focus on security and reliability. Among others, it offers support for on-demand disk buffering, reliable syslog over TCP, SSL, TLS and RELP, writing to databases, email alerting. It is a drop-in replacement for syslogd.

* '''D-Bus''' is a message bus system, a simple way for applications to talk to one another. In addition to interprocess communication, D-Bus helps coordinate process lifecycle; it makes it simple and reliable to code a "single instance" application or daemon, and to launch applications and daemons on demand when their services are needed.

* '''PolicyKit''' is an application-level toolkit for defining and handling the policy that allows unprivileged processes to speak to privileged processes: It is a framework for centralizing the decision making process with respect to granting access to privileged operations for unprivileged applications. PolicyKit is specifically targeting applications in rich desktop environments on multi-user UNIX-like operating systems. It does not imply or rely on any exotic kernel features.

* '''ConsoleKit''' is a framework for defining and tracking users, login sessions, and seats. ConsoleKit is currently not actively maintained. The focus has shifted to the built-in seat/user/session management of Software/systemd called systemd-loginctl

* '''udisks''' project provides: a daemon, udisksd, that implements well-defined D-Bus interfaces that can be used to query and manipulate storage devices; a command-line tool, '''udisksctl (udisks2)''', that can be used to query and use the daemon.

* '''upower''' is an abstraction for enumerating power devices, listening to device events and querying history and statistics. UPower aims to make a large chunk of HAL redundant, as HAL is officially deprecated. UPower is also useful to control the latency of different operations on your computer, which enables you to save significant amounts of power.

* '''Avahi''' is a system which facilitates service discovery on a local network via the mDNS/DNS-SD protocol suite. This enables you to plug your laptop or computer into a network and instantly be able to view other people who you can chat with, find printers to print to or find files being shared. Compatible technology is found in Apple MacOS X (branded Bonjour and sometimes Zeroconf).

* '''PulseAudio''' is a sound system for POSIX OSes, meaning that it is a proxy for your sound applications. It allows you to do advanced operations on your sound data as it passes between your application and your hardware. Things like transferring the audio to a different machine, changing the sample format or channel count and mixing several sounds into one are easily achieved using a sound server. 

[[category:Системное ПО]]
